So we're cooking away, and I want to take this moment to now dive into Maskey, because I guess this
is the chapter where we get to talk about a lot of the stuff that I've been trying to squeeze in and
fit into the course somewhere.
So masking this is a really cool technique with a lot of different applications.
So I highlighted three points of the edit with this baby blue ish color where we're going to use masking
as a cool kind of overlay transition between shots.
So I went ahead and I just kind of did one real quick.
So we'll see what that looks like and we'll break it down and then we'll create it together.
So these cool little split frame moments.
So let's look at it again.
OK, so what's going on here is basically, if I go ahead and reset this, let's go ahead and delete
this clip, we'll start from scratch.
So we're going between this shot and this shot, and I'm looking for similarities between the two.
Now, there's pretty much this line, this horizontal line.
If I were to draw calls like that, and that pretty much goes between these two shots, it's a little
bit different.
The the angle of the line kind of changes, but it's OK.
It's a little bit different.
What we want to use is the slight similarities between shots that we can create a cool overlay with.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to drag over similar to when we were doing the screen and darken
blending mode.
We're going to create an overlap between cuts.
So it's not going to be a clean cut where it goes from this shot to that shot.
There's going to be a slight overlay between the two, and I'm going to take this overlay and I'm going
to hit the pen tool under opacity to create a masking layer.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm going to go ahead and carve out this wall and I'm going to use that as
kind of an overlay point between the two shots.
So there's a little bit of that similarity that I mentioned.
This wall going across is going to go to that wall and it's just a few frames.
So it looks cool, but it's a cool way to transition between the shots.
It has a lot more of a stylistic look than that.
So let's go to the second one and this one.
What I started to do was instead of using the background, I wanted to use what was going to be the
main focus of the foreground in the next shot.
So if we delete this, we have this clean cut.
And what I want to do is create a little bit of an overlap.
I'm going to go ahead and create a cut here.
So we're just selectively adding this mask to just this part of the clip.
I'm going to hit the pen tool for mask.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to click in around the main focus.
Of what the next part of the image is going to be.
And you can really fine tune this as much as you want, because it's only in frame for a few frames.
You don't have to get too crazy.
But of course, you know, I could work more on this, but let's see it.
So let's drag it out one more frame.
Cool.
So it has a cool look to it, right?
And if I wanted to, because you could see there's a little bit of an issue going on here.
I go to the beginning of the clip, hit the mask, past stopwatch.
This is going to allow for me to keyframe.
Just like what we did previously in the course.
And that will allow for me to track with this object to create a cleaner mask, which is going to create
just a better looking use of this technique.
And we could experiment, too, with adding a little bit of a feather.
You can see what that does.
That's with a feather that's without.
So let's see it with yeah, it looks and like it better without the feather.
OK, now let's go to later in the edit.
And let's go ahead and do this technique again, where I'm going to take the clip we want to go into.
I want to make a cut.
So there were only working on this.
And let's go ahead and use our background here.
Let's use this difference between the wall and the floor.
Just like that.
OK.
And let's say I wanted to actually have this part of the frame and lose this part of the frame, I can
actually hit the invert and then change, which I actually like that better.
For some reason, that one actually flows more with the edit.
OK, cool.
So you can really experiment, let's say I didn't like that I could do the opposite where we use this
clip and let's say I want to use the big line and what I'm doing, why I'm choosing to do this line,
because this is a big contrasting part of the image.
And that's going to allow for me to create a cool shape that's going to overlay in a more clean way
rather than just a random shape.
You know, I can go and do this and then go there and then go there and have this come down here.
And I could overlay that, you know.
And that's cool, too.
But it just looks cleaner overall when there's a little bit more of a purpose and a line that you're
using in the actual footage itself makes it more cohesive.
Look.
OK.
Now, let's go to the end here.
And what I want to do is take this clip and I want to mask out this part, so I'm going to drag it over
a few frames, select this part, create this mask.
Well.
OK, cool.
So that's looking pretty good.
Now, if I want to spice up the ending a little bit here, we can also extend out a few frames and maybe
follow something like that.
And even we can make this more of a gradual like a change.
So I want to take this and I'm going to go to this mask on this one.
Right click.
I'm going to copy and I'm going to go to the clip in front of it.
I'm going to paste.
I want to choose opacity, which is going to grab the mask from this shot and put it on this shot.
And I'm going to drag it down so that we kind of get a stairstep of the blackout frame coming versus
just a cut the block.
So to go, boom, boom, boom.
So just a little bit more of a stylized look that we're creating here.
And when we create our distortion overlays and when we drop those on, that's going to make these moments
even cooler.